Git
git is a version control system and it is used to co-rodinate the work among developers.

Features:-
Open source, scalable, distributed, security, speed , Branching and merging, staging area(preview of next commit)

Benefits to use git:-
Save time, offline working, undo mistakes, Track changes

Practical knowledge started here

git --version :- to know the current version of git that u r using.

git --global config user.name "Rohit" :- set the global user name in your system.

git --global config user.email "Rohitrajb7524@gmail.com" :- sets the global user email to your system

git config --list :- it shows the list which contains you username and user email.




Important Terminology

Branch:- repository diverges(alag hona) from main working directory.

checkout:- checkout is used for the act of switching between different versions of a target entities.

clone:- making copy from the server.

merge:- combining branches.

origin:- remote repository from project was initially cloned.

pull:- receive the data from the server(github).

push:- upload local repository to the server.

git ignore:- use for intentially untrack the file.(say to git just dont track the file)

git diff:- show changes between commit , working tree etc.

git rm:- for removing the files.

cd file/folder name:- it is used to change the directory.

ls:- shows the all given files in that folder/file.

git init:- is used to initialise the git to your folder.

git add fileName:- git add command is used to add the file into the staging area.

git add -A:- used to add multiple/ all files to the staging area.

git status:- it shows the status of file that it has been commited or not or ready for staging area or not etc.

now your file has been added to the git and you need to commit it

git commit -m "any comment(first commit)":- this command is used to commit the file/folder


   Branch

git branch --list :- this command will show you all the branches that a master contains.

git branch login(any branch name):- this command create a branch in master.

git checkout branch name:- this command just switch you for the particular which you want to switch.

git branch -d branchName:- this command is used to delete the branch.

git branch -b branchName:- this command is used to create a branch and switch to that same branch.



uploading to files in github

git remote add origin linkeOfRepository:- this command will add link you github account repository to the git so you can upload the file on github.\

git remote -v :- this command is to see the active url of github to push the files

git branch -M main:- if you need to send the file to github then chancge your master branch to main branch.

git push -u origin main(branch name):- this command will just uplaod you branch to the github repository .




cloning the file by pull request

cd .. :- this command will just put you back the the file

git clone url(https://github.com/rohitrajbhar7/Learning-Git.git):- this command will store the githib branch files to your computer file.



